This week, I spent some
time with Americans
across the country
who are hurting
because of this
economic crisis.
People closing the
businesses they scrimped
and saved to start.
Families losing the homes
that were their stake
in the American Dream.
Folks who have given
up trying to get ahead,
and given in to
the stark reality
of just trying to get by.
They've been looking to
those they sent to Washington
for some hope at a time
when they need it most.
This morning, I'm
pleased to say
that after a lively debate
full of healthy differences
of opinion, we've delivered
real and tangible progress
for the American people.
Congress has passed my
economic recovery plan -
an ambitious plan at a
time we badly need it.
It will save or create
more than 3.5 million jobs
over the next two years,
ignite spending by businesses
and consumers alike,
and lay a new foundation
for our lasting economic
growth and prosperity.
This is a major milestone
on our road to recovery,
and I want to thank the Members
of Congress who came together
in common purpose
to make it happen.
Because they did, I will
sign this legislation
into law shortly, and we'll
begin making the immediate
investments necessary
to put people back
to work doing the work
America needs done.
The work of modernizing
our health care system,
saving billions of dollars
and countless lives;
and upgrading classrooms,
libraries,
and labs in our children's
schools across America.
The work of building wind
turbines and solar panels
and the smart grid necessary
to transport the clean
energy they create;
and laying broadband internet
lines to connect rural homes,
schools, and businesses to
the information superhighway.
The work of repairing our
crumbling roads and bridges,
and our dangerously
deficient dams and levees.
And we'll help folks
who've lost their jobs
through no fault of their own
by providing the
unemployment benefits they need
and protecting the
health care they count on.
Now, some fear we won't be able
to effectively implement a plan
of this size and scope, and I
understand their skepticism.
Washington hasn't set a very
good example in recent years.
And with so much on the line,
it's time to begin doing
things differently.
That's why our goal must be to
spend these precious dollars
with unprecedented
accountability,
responsibility,
and transparency.
I've tasked my cabinet and
staff to set up the kind
of management, oversight,
and disclosure
that will help ensure that,
and I will challenge state
and local governments
to do the same.
Once the plan is put into
action, a new website -
Recovery.gov - will allow
any American to watch
where the money goes and
weigh in with comments
and questions - and I encourage
every American to do so.
Ultimately, this is your
money, and you deserve to know
where it's going
and how it's spent.
This historic step won't
be the end of what we do
to turn our economy around,
but rather the beginning.
The problems that led us
into this crisis are deep
and widespread, and our
response must be equal
to the task.
For our plan to succeed,
we must stabilize, repair,
and reform our banking system,
and get credit flowing again
to families and businesses.
We must write and enforce
new rules of the road,
to stop unscrupulous
speculators
from undermining our
economy ever again.
We must stem the
spread of foreclosures
and do everything we can
to help responsible
homeowners stay in their homes.
And in the weeks ahead,
I will submit a proposal
for the federal
budget that will begin
to restore the discipline
these challenging times demand.
Our debt has doubled over
the past eight years,
and we've inherited a
trillion-dollar deficit -
which we must add to in
the short term in order
to jumpstart our sick economy.
But our long-term
economic growth demands
that we tame our burgeoning
federal deficit; that we invest
in the things we
need, and dispense
with the things we don't.
This is a challenging agenda,
but one we can and
will achieve.
This morning, I'm reminded of
words President Kennedy spoke
in another time of uncertainty.
"Do not pray for easy lives.
Pray to be stronger men.
Do not pray for tasks
equal to your powers.
Pray for powers
equal to your tasks."
America, we will prove
equal to this task.
It will take time, and
it will take effort,
but working together,
we will turn this crisis
into opportunity and emerge
from our painful present
into a brighter future.
After a week spent with the
fundamentally decent men
and women of this nation,
I have never been
more certain of that.
Thank you.